I had the privilege for two years of sitting on the same table as Sister Orham for morning worship.
She expected nothing and appreciated everything that he did for her.
Sister Orham was affectionately known as Joy.
And if you take the eith out of Joy,
you're left with the English word Joy and that's under it.
My impression of Joy when I first met her was here as this frail old lady.
But then when you got started to speak to Joy,
you were tapping into a tremendous depth.
About the age of 20, around about that time, I had the heavenly calling.
That was a big battle.
I couldn't understand why Jehovah would use a person like me.
When I was 21, I got into pioneering in 1939.
But the police were after me because I wouldn't join the armed forces.
And I was tried under a new act and they kept taking me into a side room
and saying, if you will see you're not connected with Jehovah's Witnesses,
not connected with the watchtower, you'll have a walk away.
I said, I am connected with the watchtower.
I'm proud to be connected with the watchtower.
And they said, then they are direct to you.
I said, no, my stand of not her doing as you wish.
It's my own personal stand. So this went on.
In the end, they sent me to prison just for two months and let me out.
I partnered with another sister and she and I went to Northern Ireland.
And Pioneer there for 18 months.
And it was in Northern Ireland. We had our call to Gilead.
In 1948, Joy was invited to Gilead.
And that was the 11th class.
It left an impression on me which I will never, ever, ever forget.
You pick up that spirit of good behaviour, of love.
It's something that leaves its mark or it should do.
It has left its mark on me very, very much so.
One thing brother, nor impressed on us,
you'll be three years on your assignment before you really love it.
And it was true because it was a hard assignment.
After Gilead, she was assigned to be a missionary in Dublin in the Irish Republic.
That was the time when Catholic priests used to organise mobs against the Pioneers.
She was full of joy but that didn't mean to say she had had an easy life.
You never went out from door to door without being mobs and attacked
and beaten up and thrown around and you could only do a few houses in a road
and you have to get away very quickly.
But we made a very good name.
People got to know we were completely neutral.
They chose four of us to work the business property
and I got some studies going in their offices.
But one place I went into, I walked the length of this draper shop
and I asked if I could go into the manager's office.
And as I went in, I didn't say a word.
I didn't owe my mouth even say good morning, but this man stood up and he said,
rust the light.
And he took hold of me by the scruff of my neck and the seat of my pants.
He lifted me up and he carried me the length of the store.
Well, like a silly one, I should have gone heavy on him, you see.
But he said to that, I lit my legs paddled and I was hanging on my book bag
not wanting to lose it.
And when he got to the front door, the staff, their eyes were absolutely gone.
He opened his front door and he threw me out of the tree and I went,
zoom and just met him, zoom again.
And one of the brothers was passing and he caught me and caught me steady
and said, whatever's going on.
And I couldn't stop laughing.
To me, it was very, very funny.
The rest was so crossed about it.
But I wasn't a store cross.
I thought it was quite hilarious.
I could see myself being carried through this shop.
Sky high, things like that happened.
These experiences did not dampen her zeal.
She always retained that missionary spirit.
I first met Joey when I was commuting to Bethel in the infirmary.
She was sitting on that old fashioned chair with this huge Bible
and she stayed there hours reading the Bible, praying to Yelva.
Often when you came in, she'd be in the middle of Bible reading
and she'd be saying something like, Daniel's just been thrown into the lion's den
or, oh, Jehovah's really angry, he's thundering from the heavens.
And it made me think, wow, she must have read the Bible so many times.
But every time it was as if it was happening right in front of her.
Right up until she became incapacitated,
she was conducting Bible studies and helping people to come to know Jehovah.
She was looking forward to her heavenly reward.
And for her, that was the culmination of a life of joy in Jehovah's service
and that she was just transferring to her next assignment.
I'm very, very grateful for work.
In fact, often in my prayers, pray to Jehovah that I have some good work to do today.
I'm very grateful to have work to do.